We're
at 2911 Georgia Street in North Carolina.
And I'm getting ready to chat with Mr. W.S.
Edmonds.
W.S. Edmonds, E-D-M-O-N-D-A. All right. Say a
sentence. By that, 1-2-3-4-1-2-3. Is my mic
working well?
This is now the second run. We're checking to see
that this works.
didn't get much out of it but then there was a ss
market that i took a class under and i liked it and i
did real well
also one time i failed college algebra and then i
took it in summer school and i made a flat 100.
that was nice uh
I had to wear the uniform and I had, if you were
caught, you were put on the bull ring. I always
thought that I only exceeded a certain amount I
wouldn't have to work but maybe an hour. I went up
there that day and Colonel Anderson said we don't
keep books that way so I had to walk through the ring
for four hours. Describe Colonel Andy. Well he was
kind of a short fellow very athletic.
I didn't care for that very much as a student, but I
had to, oh, I do remember, I think it was Colonel
Andy, that constantly, it seemed like every week,
somebody would put a flag up on the flagpole, and
he'd have to pay somebody to go up there and get that
flag down. And that was quite an occasion. We'd all
be around there, and I'm kind of kidding you, you
know, I don't think he liked that. Now, he lived,
Anderson's lived on campus? Yes, I'm sure he did. I
don't even know what house. I knew quite a few of the
homes that lived on there. Before I went to A&M, I
used to deliver newspapers to all of them around
here. Oh, which paper? The Eagle. I wrote the Inner
Urban, the college where I lived there, at the
North Cape. In Dubai, I picked up the paper. I was
the only carrier in the Eagle. And as the police
would go out, I would throw newspapers out along
the trolley line. And they'd get the samples. I had
about maybe 100 prescribers. They didn't count
the papers on me or anything like that. And one of my
favorite things is to go by the mess hall and take
the papers in there, and they'd give you a good hand
check. Do you remember what, what your pay was for
that delivery? How much money did you make as a
paper boy?
And do you remember what the subscription was? How
much did they pay for the paper?
Did
you have to collect the money? No, you just
delivered.
And you were the only Eagles delivery boy for the
whole campus. I was kind of handed down from my
family. My mother was a boy. And at one time,
Linwood Boyette, who later became the elder of
Texas University. And incidentally, they're the
ones that gave the first steer to Texas
University. Who was that now? Boyette? Linwood
Boyette was the son of an uncle of mine, Doug A.
Boyette. And as I understand, they gave the first
steer to Texas University, the first vehicle.
Now, he was a yell leader at Texas University. And
then later, his brother became yell leader, Jack
Boyette,
at Texas University. He became yell leader, and
Jack had held the legal route, and he turned it over
to me. Now, Boyette's owned the property east of
the campus theater, didn't they, at Northgate?
They owned up through... Well, pharmacy, where
Lupo's is now, Lipton Pharmacy on the other side of
Spar. I remember Spar told my grandfather, he
said, that's the best thing you ever did was get me
to buy 10 feet, I believe, from back to set my
building back. On downtown. When
you were in high school, what businesses were
there at Northgate?
Uh...
I don't remember too much about part of anything
being there. As I understand, old Charlie's
Grocery was there. That was later on. Might have
been when I was in high school. And that building up
there was a wooden building. At one time, I think my
grandfather, somebody had a grocery store there.
They had the gates when I was going there. They
didn't lock the gates, but they had the gates
around them and the door there with the fence. I
remember one time my folks built a skating rink.
Somehow or another, the university didn't care
for them to go over there at night to the skating
rink, so they just put the skating rink
off-limits. And the kids couldn't come off the
campus to go to the skating rink. A lot of them went
to Brian's on the weekend for the picture show.
They had a picture show in Brian's. There wasn't
one in College Station. Not that I know of. What was
there at Southgate? Were there any businesses
over there yet? when
you were in high school uh that's
what i remember all they were
was just over there in california and the campus
faced the railroad
well there was two railroads up there of course And
they had the, incidentally, that's where they had
these carts that they pulled stuff on. They were
kind of four-wheel wagons, rather narrowly, with
baggage carts. And that's what the Aggies used to
haul stuff to the bond farm. As a matter of fact,
they took our outhouse. We had an outhouse there.
And...
Well, I didn't object to that because you go up to
the college
and they didn't have any bulges. I think they took
several outhouses around and that's
it. Let's see, back to the campus. Do you remember
how you registered? How did a student sign up
for courses? Well, there wasn't really a problem
at all. No, but did you stand, did you go to some
thesis and stand in line? Oh, there was no line. The
main thing was to get the money to register. Do you
remember what it cost when you first entered A&M?
Well, I remember my stepfather was working for the
power plant at Collin.
And he came home with his check, I suppose it was
either a weekly check or a two-week check, and
said, you take this money and go away.
He said, I want you to go to Collin. Now, that
couldn't have been very much for him. And
you said you had to buy your own uniforms you did
because you weren't physically Describe
the uniform show or what?
We
had Well, of course, the seniors, I believe, had a
little bit better hat with a stiff brim around it.
And, of course, if you were in the artillery, you
wore red and blue infantry and signal corps. All of
that was on the hat that the seniors had with the
gold braid coming out. How did you get introduced
all of the Aggie traditions of whipping out and all
that. How did a fish in those days get prepared?
I
was with the company. You were assigned, even
though I had a hernia, I was just an ROTC and had good
ROTC classes. And what outfit were you in?
Which
one? Did it have a nickname?
But
you had to go over and make formation in the
afternoon? Where did y'all drill?
You were just in front of the dormitory. I had to go
there and be available when they called the kids to
be with the first one to the room to run an errand for
the upper class. And the one thing I liked about it
when you would go to, I believe you got, when you
used the board, let's say, sophomores were
usually kind of bad they were the roughest but if
they got too rough then the juniors would come
along and that that would slow it down so there was a
control there uh really and there were one or
two arguments that couldn't take it at all Do
you remember what kind of paddle did they use? What
size was it? What was it made out of?
kind of did a little artwork on their paddles, and
they had specific paddles. We always enjoyed the
day when they got where it was called, but it was the
day that the underclassmen would paddle the upper
class. Was that fish day?
Fish day, yeah. Did you paddle somebody? So even
though you didn't eat on campus, you were expected
to do chores, run errands for upperclassmen. And
how long at night would you have to do that? I think
it was up to
about 7 o'clock. After that, some nights,
it was just during the afternoon, the time they
went to jail,
really. But I did miss out on sometimes, what you
call it, an air outing, where they put you in the
paddock and they make the guys leave you gone, you
know. Did you... So you would get up and go to your 8
o'clock class. You didn't have to go over and stand
inspection before breakfast.
Oh, you did? Okay. And then you'd go to class.
Describe a full day of classes. What did you do all
day?
Well, it seemed like the classes just ran from more
or less 8 o'clock until noon, and then 1 o'clock to
5. I think the longest class was probably,
I took it to agriculture, that was generally, that
was actually pretty well free from 5 o'clock. What
was your major, do you remember? Well, I
thought... I started mechanical engineering and
I dropped mechanical engineering and ended up
with agriculture administration and also I took
cotton marketing classes which I really enjoyed.
I ended up later when I left A&M going into cotton in
New Orleans. I really enjoyed that. Now when you
were in class, did you attend regularly? Did you go
to class regularly, regularly, and they checked
the role?
Did
you all ever do any mischief in class? Oh, no.
Not at that time. Not at all. What about going to
sleep in class? No, you didn't do that either. I did
that when I was in OCS at Fort Chill. I stood in the
corner for four hours. During the day, If you
wanted to get a Coca Cola, or to just take a break,
where did y'all go during the day cases? I had the
money I got a banana split. I think it might have
been about was that in the YMCA? That is downstairs
in the YMCA. They also had Do you
remember
getting your fish haircut? No not really. I do, it
comes about, I do remember there was one comrade
down there that joined the Brines, and it was a man
in Brines that had received a hot check. And so, he
got all the, about 10 or 12 of us, I didn't know it
until later, and interviewed us, and that man
couldn't pick out who had did it. I was completely
innocent because I had gone in the store and
I had gone in there. But I was one of about 10 or 12.
And he kept man didn't know who really did it. He
thinks like that. And I do remember the common
dance As a
student, what were the things that you all knew
were totally prohibited? You might do pranks or
play jokes, but there must have been some limit.
What were the things that were off limits?
The main thing was getting out of the uniform, as I
remember, and getting put on the bull ring. Now,
where was the bull ring then? When you walked the
bull ring, where was that? Well, it was either in
the drill field or you'd walk to what's called a
fish tank. I believe it was a fish tank.
I remember one thing that a friend of mine that I
knew fairly well He was living in the dormitory and
he had gotten some whiskey
and he was selling it for the dancers. He'd pour up
little bottles and made a little money one week and
did it again. About the second time though he did
it, the I've forgotten the communist name, but he
called him in. Colonel Andy? Huh? Was it Colonel
Andy? No, it wasn't Colonel Andy. Somebody, oh,
okay. He called him in and said, now, I know what
you're doing. We haven't had any trouble, but I
don't want you to do that anymore.
Well, that was the end of that. He didn't kick him
out of school or anything like that, but he called
him in and said, now, don't do that anymore in terms
of alcohol
where where could a student have bought beer when
you were an undergraduate
there's very few places if I know all there were a
few pieces that have people that bootlegged
whiskey you could get bootleg whiskey fairly easy
over around Brenham in Washington County. But you
had to leave Brazos County to get it. Pretty well.
There were some people that handled, that
bootlegged here in Brazos County.
But
there wasn't that much drinking, you would say,
back in those days. There really wasn't. Now, when
I got here, people drove to Whiskey Bridge.
towards Snook and bought whiskey just across the
river. Did that exist then, that place? No, the
only thing they had was some bootleg whiskey and
that was, or there might have been maybe a couple of
places out in Brazos County where if you knew
somebody you could go in there and get a little bit.
And in Washington County, What, what about beer?
Where could you buy beer? No, because you had to
roll your own for one day. And I don't remember
anybody
ever
spoke. Both of them didn't have enough money.